Minimal UI follow-up — 8 October 2026

The farm now fits its available width and height, accounting for permanent
title/scenery/chat/tool chrome and the stable bottom controls. It has no internal
scroll area. Selecting crops, opening receipts and changing guidance do not enter
the size calculation. A hidden mobile farm keeps its size when viewing Market.

Removed the permanent watered/growth/ready legend and the empty hint-row space.
Guidance, receipts and contextual controls use compact disclosures. Their mobile
details open as optional popovers, so reading them does not shrink the farm or
move its buttons. Portrait shows the full grid with tools directly beneath it.
Short landscape uses a compact farm window, a tool rail and one bottom row for
navigation and actions. Very short wide windows use the same arrangement. An
exceptionally narrow AND short window can scroll the page to keep controls
reachable, rather than creating a scrollbar inside the farm.

The desktop market has one scroll area for its long list; its header, selected
details and table no longer each scroll independently. Selected-crop panels show
sale value, signed profit, actual cost and Sell directly, with treatment status
and crop traits under Crop details. Empty preview prompts and empty goal summaries
do not consume space. Prices, accounting, growth and save contracts are unchanged.

Browser checks
Used isolated local origins 127.0.0.1:8022 for the fresh opening and :8023 for
the guarded legacy fixture. The earlier preview retained cached modules, so the
new origins and updated entry/affected UI module versions ensured current code.
No existing player's save was cleared or migrated for these checks.

- 500x762: 318px square grid, full seven rows and tools visible, document height
  762px, zero scroll areas in the farm view. Mature selection and an expanded
  receipt both kept the grid at 318px. A real fixture sale completed correctly.
- 615x762: 317px square grid with the full farm and controls, document height
  762px. The small difference comes from responsive HUD font sizes.
- 845x382: 192px square grid, all seven rows, tools beside it, page height 382px
  and no farm/page scroll area. Market-to-Farm round trip kept 192px. Switched to
  Farm 2's immature crop and back. Guidance opened and closed without resizing.
- 1400x382: same compact arrangement; page height 382px, grid 192px and tool
  rail above the bottom controls.
- 350x700: grid 288px, page height 700px, toolbar bottom 539px, Rest top 586px.
- 1400x900: grid 532px, bottom 817px, Rest top 832px. Full farm visible with
  selected information; the only scrolling content element was the market.
- Final browser console inspection reported no application warnings/errors.

Screenshots
  portrait-selected.png
  portrait-receipt.png
  landscape-selected.png
  desktop-selected.png
The previous layout is recorded in ../polish/after-*.png for comparison.

Validation
  node js/dev/tests/ui_flow.test.mjs
  node js/dev/validate_messages.cjs   (96 entries)
  Syntax: all 96 .js files via node --input-type=module --check on file contents
  git diff --check
All passed. Node file access used --preserve-symlinks --preserve-symlinks-main in
this Windows sandbox, with the bundled Node 24 runtime.

Physical touch and true browser zoom were not tested. Existing sales/growth
regressions were retained; this follow-up changes presentation and sizing only.
