Extended playtest implementation and verification — 7 October 2026

Baseline
The checkout was clean at reviewed commit 072bd56507c048954b532a19c29a9c94f9485ca6.
There were no intervening changes to reconcile. The existing native modules,
retro presentation, rarity pricing, farm effects and accelerated opening were
retained. No deployment or public save was modified.

Implementation commits on codex/extended-playtest-polish:
  61c68d0 Protect crop settlement, retained growth, and trading cost ledgers
  280af79 Stabilize responsive farming and polish contextual feedback
Browser fixtures, screenshots, this report and README validation commands are
recorded in a separate final evidence commit.

Changes
Sale snapshots carry originating farm and exact placement instance identity.
Queued settlement validates both, freezes quotes, and rejects conflicting farm,
move, planting, repeat-sale and Rest actions. A paid bulk step synchronously
updates crop removal, cash, counters, challenge profit, harvest XP, goal rewards
and persistence before awaiting its travel effect. Single sales retain their
payment-after-travel behavior. Reload leaves unpaid crops available to retry.

Retention records completed moisture days before the last watering date changes
and at dawn on both farms. Known crop costs include actual paid seed and treatment
spending. Older treatment prices stay unknown and are explicitly disclosed.
Mature/resolved Quality applications fail before cash or energy changes.
See ../../growth_cost_migration.txt for the precise migration rules.

Farm 2 estimates include its multiplier and label current-price assumptions.
Ready-crop advice ranks actual sellable holdings. Fertiliser details explain
application cost, energy, duration and stacking instead of showing resale value.
The Goals area previews the next useful unlock and offers an optional challenge.
Contextual gesture hints retire after successful use. Rest stays separate from
Cancel planting; quiet rolls immediately show a recap, with a saved quick-roll
preference and accessible checkbox. Selection/receipts no longer resize the farm.
Short screens can scroll, including dialogs; sale and Rest share one mobile row.

Automated checks
All seven commands passed with bundled Node 24.19.0:
  node js/dev/tests/trading_loop.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/sale_safety.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/growth_costs.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/trading_challenge.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/ui_flow.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/farm_scenery.test.mjs
  node js/dev/tests/clarity.test.mjs
  node js/dev/validate_messages.cjs  (96 message entries)

This Windows sandbox needed --preserve-symlinks --preserve-symlinks-main for
Node file access. Node's module-detection warnings are unrelated to browser
runtime behavior. Node 22+ is recommended; Node 20 needs module-mode configuration.

Syntax checked all 96 .js files with:
  $taskJsFiles = rg --files -g '*.js'
  foreach ($taskFile in $taskJsFiles) {
    Get-Content -Raw -LiteralPath $taskFile | node --input-type=module --check
    if ($LASTEXITCODE -ne 0) { throw "Failed: $taskFile" }
  }
git diff --check passed after removing excess trailing blank lines.

Focused coverage
- Exact farm/crop identity, same-type replacements, frozen quotes, repeated
  input, origin-array replacement, and sale/Rest/move locks.
- Interruptions at each bulk step, reload/retry, paid cash/XP/goal consistency,
  final feedback interruption, and interrupted single sale before payment.
- Retention migration and monotonic growth, rain/manual/sprinkler daily dedupe,
  movement, farm switching, actual treatment prices and historical-cost limits.
- Mature Quality payment rejection and valid prematurity stacking.
- Farm-aware estimates, ready-holdings guidance, stable geometry, hints,
  compact rolls, preference click/keyboard behavior and treatment disclosure.
- Challenge entry, inherited/free/unknown-cost exclusions, losses, Farm 2
  parity, exact-crop dedupe, deadlines, harmless retry and one-time rewards.
- Existing pricing parity, opening safeguards, rarity persistence, farm scenery
  and first-seed versus ordinary-seed growth.

Browser protocol
Used real in-app browser controls against local Python HTTP servers. Port 8000
was used only to inspect the original layout. Disposable isolated origins
127.0.0.1:8017 (fresh) and :8018 (legacy) were used for mutations. The fixture
page js/dev/tests/browser_fixture.html is restricted to those two local ports,
refuses creation when ANY known game-save key already exists, and never clears
storage. Existing player storage was preserved. Browser tests did not change
game state through the console or browser evaluation.

Observed browser results
1. Fresh buy/water/grow/sell: manually watered introductory Carrot on Days 1 and
   2; it matured on Day 3, retained Rare rarity through reload, and sold for
   $1.92 against $1 seed cost. Cash $100.92, one item sold, Level 2. A subsequent
   paid Carrot displayed ordinary six-watered-day growth, preserving the
   one-time opening. Drag mining spent energy and retired its hint.
2. Legacy Day 9 retention crop showed one day remaining before and after
   manual rewatering; energy was spent without reversing growth. Mature Common
   Lettuce rejected Quality with unchanged cash/energy and a brief explanation.
   The treatment-cost quote included $10 paid retention in its loss.
3. Interrupted a real seven-crop mixed-rarity bulk sale after two payments by
   reloading: cash rose from $1000 to $1009.36, sold count 20 to 22, XP 1 to 13,
   and only indices 7 and 8 were removed. Rest keyboard input did not advance
   Day 9; farm switch was disabled during settlement. Farm 2's matching unripe
   crop was still present after reload. The remaining crops could be sold later.
4. Moved the mature retained crop to another empty plot, switched farms and
   reloaded: maturity, original cost, cached rarity and known-cost disclosure
   remained. Farm 2 shop estimates showed its doubled sale assumption.
5. Bought two Common Corn on Day 9, arranged irrigation, watered/refilled and
   grew them over six dawns. Irrigation plus occasional rain allowed repeated
   zero-action days. Compact zero-strength recaps still changed prices/weather
   and advanced growth. Held the first harvest from Day 15 ($9.67 quote) to
   Day 16 ($9.12), demonstrating downside, then sold for $1.12 profit.
6. Reinvested into two $7.60 Corn on Day 16. Held the second original Common
   Corn until Day 19 and sold for $10.19 ($2.19 profit). Refilled the sprinkler,
   then grew the reinvestment through Day 22. A Common reinvested Corn sold for
   $9.47 ($1.86 profit), completing the challenge with $5.17 across three sale
   days. Only three paid crop sales were needed; the target is not a cash-balance
   grind and did not need rare crops or Farm 2's subsidy. An inherited Onion
   sold during this window contributed nothing. One-time goal XP and completion
   persisted through reload. A fourth reinvested Corn happened to become Rare;
   it was not needed to meet the target. No broad economy rebalance was made.
7. Completed another five-crop mixed-rarity batch (four Onion, one Corn):
   $30.68 payment, $53 known seed/treatment costs, $22.32 loss, sold count +5,
   XP +30, all five exact crops removed. The grid remained 365px square.
8. Drag planted two paid Carrots in adjacent empty plots. Rain already watered
   their soil; a manual drag correctly reported already watered, spent no more
   energy and left six growth days remaining (no duplicate daily progress).
9. Quick-roll checkbox was checked/unchecked without closing the recap, then
   retained its setting through reload. Browser testing caught and fixed the
   old single-sale wrapper lock, modal checkbox bubbling and hidden-checkbox
   styling. No application console errors were reported in final legacy play.

Layout evidence
Before screenshots are from the original build; after screenshots use the
updated isolated saves, so crop contents and days differ. They compare layout,
not identical economic state.
- before-500-selected.png, before-500-farm.png
- before-845-landscape.png
- after-500-selected.png, after-615-selected.png
- after-845-landscape.png, after-845-market.png, after-845-dialog.png
- after-desktop.png, after-compact-goals.png
- after-fresh.png, after-challenge.png, after-bulk-receipt.png

The selected farm is 365x365 at both 500x762 and 615x762, versus the previously
shrinking selection layout. At 845x382 it is 280x280 with usable page scrolling;
tools, Farm 2, market details and recap Continue were reachable. At 1400x900 the
grid is 570x570 at x162/y293 both with and without selected details, independent
of the receipt. A 700x450 viewport checked constrained-space behavior equivalent
to reduced CSS space at zoom. Desktop farm and market panels scroll independently.

Limits and remaining risks
- Physical phone touch was not tested. Desktop mouse dragging, click controls,
  keyboard paths and resized portrait/landscape browser layouts were exercised.
- The in-app browser's Ctrl-minus shortcut did not change its scale. Actual
  browser zoom remains unverified; reduced viewport checks are not a claim of
  true zoom testing. Cross-browser Safari/Firefox behavior was not tested.
- Cross-farm corruption and partial-batch missing XP were source-confirmed risks
  in the report. This run deliberately interrupted the fixed implementation;
  it did not corrupt the preserved original save to reproduce the old failure.
- Historical treatment payments and previously erased retention progress cannot
  be recovered exactly. Migration preserves known facts instead of guessing.
- Persistence still uses the existing synchronous multiple localStorage keys;
  normal reloads are covered, but disk/storage failure or browser termination
  inside the synchronous save calls is not an atomic storage journal guarantee.
- The challenge was tuned against the recorded small crop cycles, not a broad
  statistical balance study. Failure remains harmless and free play stays open.
